now I'm not much of an SUV guy but
there's something I really like about
this Honda Pilot see if you can find out
what it is and we'll discuss it live
when we come back the 2009 Honda Pilot
it's not a sports car it's not supposed
to be it's actually quite comfortable
and that is the reaction honda is aiming
for redesigned for 2009 to add more
utility and more luxury than before but
honda hasn't delivered a pimp daddy
cruiser or a jungle wagon no they've
upped the luxury but also kept it
modestly sporty at the same time play
the throttle down it just goes our which
is really butch very cool touch lots of
little gauges we have the nav system it
also has a little computer here that
shows us our instant fuel miles per
gallon and if we are keep the mode the
revs low enough we get a little more
rewarded with an eco light the green
light says eco like good for you it's a
pat on the head what that light is
really about is that behind the scenes
the pilot is deactivating one two three
cylinders to improve gas mileage so it
is doing something the model we're
testing today is the 4-wheel Drive
touring Edition and it is loaded don't
you hate it when you walk up to your car
and you actually have to use your hand
to lift the back
well Honda has a nice feature in the
pilot it'll do it for you how cool is
that
of course other cars feature this same
gimmick but it's not a very common
option for a car that starts under 30
grand
the auto trunk is just the start of the
techie hit parade our car also has a
pull up sunscreen rear passenger
temperature and audio controls as well
as a massive cargo area that's good for
your triple venti uber lattes also keeps
your coins in service manual in easy
reach Honda's at navigation system and
steering wheel mounted controls as well
as a DVD player in the rear so say you
got some kids in the back just get these
headphones which are wireless oh but
that's not everything
there's also a 512 watt stereo with XM
Radio CD changer iPod USB interface
Bluetooth hands-free which we weren't
able to get working it also has cruise
control eight-way power leather seats
rear view mirror proximity sensor
sunroof third row seating stability
control active noise cancellation and
that's pretty much it under the hood is
Honda's 3.5 liter v6 which gets between
16 and 22 miles to the gallon let's be
honest though if you're driving a v6 SUV
economy is not your priority
I think I could personally do without
the father mated lifts rear that's just
not something that I really need every
day my friends are totally making fun of
me
although my wife when she has two bags
of groceries and little one in her arms
if I make things a little easier for her
can top that
in a way I prefer the Nissan Pathfinder
because it feels from head to toe it
feels like it's meant to be a basic
off-road purpose-built vehicle this car
has a lot of little fussy touches that
kind of make it think that wow it's
really built for the city so let's just
kind of ignore the off-road capability
although it does have a fully locking
maybe tm4 lock assume that's the center
diff lock it has a little picture of a
center death so that's pretty cool that
could by be very useful unfortunately
they don't like us to the press cars
into too rugged up off-road conditions
unless we damage them in the process
which would be very uncool the 2009
Honda Pilot four-wheel drive touring
Edition we tested the day runs a cool
thirty nine thousand dollars so the
question remains
would I buy one it's comfortable it's
nice pretty well equipped for the price
yeah I think I probably put out my list
at least one to take a look at I love
the note the exhaust note is just
fantastic for for one of these type of
vehicles it's really well thought out
it's very well equipped for the money I
don't think I'd go with all the gizmos
and that would keep the price down a
little bit lower
probably down into the the low to mid
30s which I think would be a pretty good
price to pay for a car that has these
kind capabilities in this level of
comfort I'm not a huge fan of a lot of
the interior trim pieces but you know
that's okay it's not it's not a huge
deal I'm sure you can option it out
without the little glass in sets which
is too fussy for me
but so I got to play with some of the
navigation features you were building
with the the iPod interface button you
can hook your iPod right into it and
it's just not very intuitive I wasn't
happy with the iPod interface I do have
an idea to the comment on that because I
just drove back from Portland as some
people might know because I went down to
the Portland Auto Show just today and I
have an rx-8 in my rx-8 I have the iPod
interface kit now what that does is it
makes it so I have the actual like edge
connector for an iPhone so the one thing
that I liked about the pilot was the
fact that it was a traditional USB
interface so all you had to do was you
knew we had your own cable which you
plugged into the USB you didn't have to
have a custom cable that in 10 years may
no longer be used by anybody and further
you at least have the screen on the rx-8
you have this cryptic I mean it's one of
those things where you're like oh well
number is playlists' second number is
song third number is place in song that
kind of stuff that kind of makes sense
but when you actually use it
I found myself kept going back to like
ac/dc constantly like that's not the
song I wanted it didn't even having read
the manual and knowing conceptually how
it works and I had that car now for
about eight months and I still can't
figure out the iPod interface well just
be glad at ac/dc and Abba isn't at the
top of your playlist you know with with
the pilot going down to the Super Bowl
party that was only an hour and a half
drive we got to figure it out by time we
got down there so oh it wasn't horrible
and you could at least see you know all
of your ABBA playlist constantly on the
screen yeah yeah
can somebody check on the win over there
do we have any questions on the pipe if
you do have questions on the pilot we
will get to them at the end of the show
right now I think we're gonna hit a
commercial and come back to take a look
at what ryan saw at the portland auto
show today yeah sure we'll do that
you